---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-29T16:57:03.067Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-29T16:54:27.104Z'
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-29-a94e53e8-0cd3-4dbd-9bfb-90051110b876.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: a94e53e8-0cd3-4dbd-9bfb-90051110b876/index.html
_type: Article

---
The Power of Banking

"Whoever controls the volume of money in any country is absolute master of all industry and commerce."  
****

President James A. Garfield

"If the American people ever allow private banks to control the issue of their currency, first by inflation and then by deflation, the banks and corporations that will grow up around them will deprive the people of all their property until their children will wake up homeless on the continent their fathers conquered."

President Thomas Jefferson

"Those who create and issue money and credit direct the policies of government and hold in the hollow of their hands the destiny of the people."

Rt. Hon. Reginald McKenna, former Chancellor of Exchequer, England

"Because of 'fractional' reserve system, banks as a whole, can expand our money supply several times by making loans and investments."

Federal Reserve Bank, New York

"Bankers own the earth. Take it away from them, but leave them the power to create money and control credit, and with a flick of a pen they will create enough to buy it back." 

Sir Josiah Stamp, former President, Bank of England

A "super-entity" of 147 tightly knit companies, mostly banks, controls 40 per cent of the total wealth in the world network. "In effect, less than 1 per cent of the companies were able to control 40 per cent of the entire network."

Andy Coghlan and Debora MacKenzie, New Scientist

The economies of Western States suffer in large part because of the lack of community banks.  The FDIC Community Banking Study map dramatically demonstrates the differences across the nation of physical presence of community bank headquarters and branch locations.  Major banks drain the money from states in which they dominate.  Community banks by contrast reinvest their local deposits locally causing the money to multiply by 4 to 10 times.

See [http://www.fdic.gov/regulations/resources/cbi/report/CBSI-3.pdf][0]

This takes a moment to load, but the picture/map tells it all.

**Community Banks by Region**

North Central 24.6%   
Southeast 19.9%   
Midwest 19.7%   
Southwest 16.1%   
Northeast 10.6%   
West 9.0%   
**5,844****banks at end of 3rd quarter of 2013****5,468 banks at end of 3rd quarter of 2014**  
**Fewer Charters, Higher Values**

[0]: http://www.fdic.gov/regulations/resources/cbi/report/CBSI-3.pdf